[Content] The Avgi - Atomic Space Dragonflies, In Space (#9172)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/avgi/avgi outfits.txt

	description "The infrared light produced in the coil can either be sent through a frequency doubling crystal to support up to three green Phased Array Lasers, or frequency tripled to support up to two blue Phasers."

# Power:

outfit "Concentrating Solar Cell"
	category "Power"
	licenses
		"Avgi Civilian"
	cost 200000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 1
	"outfit space" -3
	"solar collection" 0.3
	"solar heat" 0.12
	description "This tiny set of concentrating solar cells efficiently collects sunlight, turning it into usable energy. Thin Fresnel lenses concentrate sunlight onto a small number of highly efficient solar cells, reducing weight and improving efficiency."

outfit "Concentrating Solar Array"
	category "Power"
	licenses
		"Avgi Civilian"
	cost 200000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"

> 	"mass" 3

Reviewer: I'm not entirely sure how to evaluate the balance implications of outfits having lower than standard densities. I recall noting recently that most ships use around 10-20% of their outfit space on generators, so if you use exclusively these for power generation you're losing *very* roughly 5%-15% of your ship's mass, depending on its ratio of dry mass to outfit space (which I'm assuming to mostly vary from .25 to 1).
In terms of power per space though, this and the Concentrating Solar Cell are notably weaker (~10%-20%) than coalition collector modules, and I don't think the mass saving is likely to be so overpowered as to cause problems there. Exclusive reliance on solar panels carries additional difficulties too, so I think these are reasonable. Might lead to interesting fighter builds, too.

outfit "Luminous Fusion Core"
	category "Power"
	licenses
		"Avgi Civilian"
	cost 20460000
	thumbnail "outfit/fusion core small"
	"mass" 36
	"outfit space" -36
	"energy generation" 12
	"heat generation" 30
	"fuel consumption" 0.0033
	description "Balance TBD"
	

outfit "Brilliant Fusion Core"
	category "Power"
	licenses
		"Avgi Military"
	cost 20460000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 72
	"outfit space" -72
	"energy generation" 21
	"heat generation" 54
	"fuel consumption" 0.0042
	description "Balance TBD"

outfit "Radiant Fusion Core"
	category "Power"
	licenses
		"Avgi Military"
	cost 20460000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 120
	"outfit space" -120
	"energy generation" 36
	"heat generation" 96
	"fuel consumption" 0.0066
	description "Balance TBD"

outfit "Stellar Fusion Core"
	category "Power"
	licenses
		"Avgi Military"
	cost 20460000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 144
	"outfit space" -144
	"energy generation" 54
	"heat generation" 156

> 	"fuel consumption" 0.009

Reviewer: Even for this, you can fuel three of these with the fuel generation of one electrostatic ramscoop, and the electrostatic ramscoop is weaker in most circumstances than existing ramscoops. I do think these reactors could be made to work (though, probably should be using `fuel energy` and `fuel heat`), but I think you need to be thinking bigger with the fuel consumption.

Reviewer 2: something something, did you know fuel energy and fuel heat to cause the energy and heat to stop when you run out of fuel?

	
	
outfit "Ultracapacitor Bank"
	category "Power"
	cost 200000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 6
	"outfit space" -18
	"energy capacity" 10800
	"ion protection" -0.03
	"description" "These fractal capacitors are capable of storing a large amount of energy within superconducting graphene sheets. This capacitor bank chains together six individual cells, but saves space by discarding redundant components and unnecessary structural mass."
	"description" "Like its component cells, the capacitor bank is vulnerable to ionizing weapons, but is relatively better shielded for its size by virtue of its reduced surface area to volume ratio."

# Engines:

outfit "Magnetoplasma Drive"
	category "Engines"
	"cost" 30000
	thumbnail "outfit/magnetoplasma drive"
	"mass" 12
	"outfit space" -12
	"engine capacity" -12
	"thrust" 9
	"thrusting energy" 0.6
	"thrusting heat" 0.3
	"reverse thrust" 9
	"reverse thrusting energy" 0.6
	"reverse thrusting heat" 0.3
	"turn" 270
	"turning energy" 0.6
	"turning heat" 0.3

> 	"drag reduction" 0.15

Reviewer 3: At what the game shows at 15 drag reduction, which I suspect is this 0.15, a ship like a Remnant Gull loaded with eight Magnetoplasma Drives (filling its engine space) reaches speeds that outmatch Korath engines. A Hauler III loaded up with six reaches 352 speed, which likewise outmatches a relatively balanced Korath engine layout for less heat and less power consumption. They distinctly outperform Remnant engines and Atomic engines, which I believe to be the best comparison; though their turning capability is fairly similar. For a truly extreme example, loading up an Augen takes its top speed from 109 with Gegno engines, past 172 on a Korath engine set designed to mimic the performance of the 38 Magnetoplasma Drives (one each of Stellar+Planetary thrust and reverser, two Planetary steering), past 185 on a Remnant engine set, past 240 on Quarg engines, past 270 on an impractical double Sheragi Fusion Drive loadout, all the way to slightly exceeding Korath afterburners at a total 1146 speed. Obviously this is infeasible, the Augen is not available to the player, but player-accessible ships can still mount up to 23 Magnetoplasma Drives- which rockets them to speeds only matchable by pure-afterburner builds, and then with much less reverse capacity and much less heat production (though similar power consumption). 

(Sorry for all the examples, they're because I got distracted in Omnis rather than an attempt to make an Epic Debate Win.)

If the Avgi specialty is to be speed, I believe this is better represented focusing on their ships themselves rather than in engines that, en masse, are on-par with afterburners.

Reducing the drag reduction may help, but I'm not sure if it'll do the trick fully? A ship like a Star Barge can mount three Magnetoplasma Drives and gets speeds that just about match a set of Hai thrusters that fill the same space currently because it has so much less drag reduction, so obviously the effect is going to be much smaller on smaller ships, but it makes sense for smaller ships to underperform and larger ones to overperfrom. A drag reduction of 0.1, rather than 0.15, makes something like a Star Barge remain fairly fast- on par with Ion thrusters filling the same space- but something like a worldship remains significantly faster than on a Korath engine set... hmm.

	licenses
		"Twilight Guard"
	"cost" 660000
	thumbnail "outfit/fusion engine small"
	"mass" 99
	"outfit space" -33
	"engine capacity" -33
	"thrust" 108
	"thrusting energy" 9
	"thrusting heat" 45
	"thrusting fuel" 0.09
	"drag reduction" 0.3
	"flare sprite" "effect/avgi flare/fusion"
		"frame rate" 15
		"scale" 0.75
	"flare sound" "zpinch"
	"afterburner effect" "small remass injection"
	"magnozzle rings" 3
	description "Balance TBD"

outfit `Z-660 "Zap" Fusion Torch`
	category "Engines"
	licenses
		"Twilight Guard"
	"cost" 1440000
	thumbnail "outfit/fusion engine medium"
	"mass" 198
	"outfit space" -66
	"engine capacity" -66
	"thrust" 222
	"thrusting energy" 18
	"thrusting heat" 90
	"thrusting fuel" 0.18
	"drag reduction" 0.6
	"flare sprite" "effect/avgi flare/fusion"
		"frame rate" 15
	"flare sound" "zpinch"
	"afterburner effect" "medium remass injection"
	"magnozzle rings" 6
	description "Balance TBD"

outfit `Z-990 "Arc" Fusion Torch`
	category "Engines"
	licenses
		"Twilight Guard"
	"cost" 2760000
	thumbnail "outfit/fusion engine large"
	"mass" 297
	"outfit space" -99
	"engine capacity" -99
	"thrust" 360
	"thrusting energy" 27
	"thrusting heat" 135
	"thrusting fuel" 0.27

> 	"drag reduction" 0.9

Reviewer 3: The drag reduction is of course much less of an issue here than on the Magnetoplasma Drives, especially as bundling smaller engines won't exceed the drag reduction of larger engines, but the sheer speed one can achieve gives me pause. In my trials (testing on an Ikfar A'awoj, for maximum shenanigans-capable space) it achieves slightly better speed than the Stellar-Class Afterburner in a similar amount of engine space. I find this a bit troublesome, especially as the Avgi engine-modifier outfits allow one to supply an afterburning mode that even more completely outcompetes it due to consuming a similar amount of fuel for much, much lower heat.

outfit "XY-180 Radial Thrusters"
	plural "XY-180 Radial Thrusters"
	category "Engines"
	licenses
		"Twilight Guard"
	"cost" 221000
	thumbnail "outfit/rcs small"
	"mass" 18
	"outfit space" -18
	"engine capacity" -18
	"turn" 750
	"turning energy" 1.5
	"turning heat" -3
	"reverse thrust" 9
	"reverse thrusting energy" 1.5
	"reverse thrusting heat" -3
	"steering flare sprite" "effect/avgi flare/rcs"
		"frame rate" 30
		"scale" 0.0625
	"steering flare sound" "plasma small"
	"reverse flare sprite" "effect/avgi flare/rcs"
		"frame rate" 30
		"scale" 0.125
	"reverse flare sound" "plasma small"
	description `Avgi radial thrusters are hybrid thermal-electric thrusters, designed to allow translation in any direction. By using reactor heat to expel superheated water vapor out of a set of nozzles, they can help a ship cool off, but require the ship to have excess heat in order to function.`

outfit "XY-360 Radial Thrusters"
	plural "XY-360 Radial Thrusters"
	category "Engines"
	licenses
		"Twilight Guard"
	"cost" 473000
	thumbnail "outfit/rcs large"
	"mass" 36
	"outfit space" -36
	"engine capacity" -36
	"turn" 1710
	"turning energy" 3

> 	"turning heat" -6

Reviewer 3: Fascinatingly, the heat use of these engines does not gracefully degrade in a mixed-engine environment. It's all or nothing. This is a code problem, not an Avgi problem, but it's worth noting.

	"cost" 900000000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 360
	"outfit space" -120
	"engine capacity" -120
	"thrust" 540
	"thrusting energy" 12
	"thrusting heat" 90
	"thrusting fuel" 0.24
	"drag reduction" 9
	"flare sprite" "effect/avgi flare/antimatter"
		"frame rate" 30
	"flare sound" "zpinch"
	"turn" 4200
	"turning energy" 3.6
	"turning heat" 2.4
	"steering flare sprite" "effect/avgi flare/antimatter"
		"frame rate" 30
		"scale" 0.125
	"steering flare sound" "remnant afterburner"
	"magnozzle rings" 18
	description "Balance TBD"

# Special:

outfit "Anomalous Mass"
	plural "Anomalous Masses"
	category "Special"
	cost 600000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"flotsam chance" 0.5
	"unplunderable" 1
	description "Found with various properties in different segments of an Aberration, this collection of material has been characterized by Avgi scientists by its unique composition: the material does not seem to be made of atomic matter as they know it, and resists any attempts to probe its makeup."

outfit "Electromotive Rifle"
	category "Hand to Hand"
	licenses
		"Avgi Civilian"
	cost 53000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"capture attack" 0.6
	"capture defense" 1.2
	"unplunderable" 1

> 	description "This slim coilgun rifle fires a small metallic glass flechette with deadly accuracy. While those intended for ground combat can easily achieve muzzle velocities in the high hypersonic regime, this version, adapted for shipboard combat, is deliberately undervolted to reduce the risk of overpenetrating and breaching a ship's hull."

Reviewer 3: Electromotive Rifles are only sold as part of ship outfits.

	description "This magnetic field spans a range far larger than what can be generated by any physical loop of wire of reasonable size, while also sparing a starship from carrying an enormous mass of superconducting wire. It does require a rather large amount of power to function, however, and the interaction with the plasma of the interplanetary medium causes a significant amount of drag."

outfit "Deuterium Slush Tank"
	series "Avgi: Fuel"
	index 30
	category "Systems"
	cost 90000
	thumbnail "outfit/deuterium slush tank"
	"mass" 3
	"outfit space" -12
	"fuel capacity" 300
	"energy consumption" 0.6
	"heat generation" 0.6
	description "This lightweight tank stores an appreciable amount of hyperspace fuel as deuterium slush - a slurry of liquid deuterium and deuterium ice. This allows fuel to be stored at higher densities than would otherwise be possible, but the cryocooler required to maintain the zero-boiloff system requires a small amount of energy to pump heat out of the vessel."

outfit "Cryogenic Deuterium Tank"
	series "Avgi: Fuel"
	index 40
	category "Systems"

> 	cost 30000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	cost 60000
```
30k is a little on the cheap side for such a big fuel store.

	thumbnail "outfit/cryogenic deuterium tank"
	"mass" 12
	"outfit space" -6
	"cargo space" -30
	"fuel capacity" 600
	description "This insulated pressure vessel is designed to store hyperspace fuel under cryogenic temperatures for bulk transport. While not quite as efficient as a deuterium slush tank, this outfit is designed to fit into a ship's cargo space with minimal intrusion into space reserved for other systems, allowing many to be installed simultaneously without the need for deep cryocoolers."

outfit "Heatsink Partition"
	series "Avgi: Fuel"
	index 50
	category "Systems"
	cost 84000
	thumbnail "outfit/heatsink partition"
	"mass" 9
	"outfit space" -3
	"fuel capacity" -100
	"heat capacity" 240
	description "This lightweight modification partitions off a section of a ship's fuel tanks with an insulating membrane; this section can then be filled with a lithium hydride nanofluid with a high specific heat capacity. As a heatsink, it does not assist with cooling a ship, but allows it to temporarily take greater thermal loads while remaining at a safe temperature."

outfit "Multispectral Scanner"
	series "Avgi: Sensors"
	index 10
	category "Systems"

> 	cost 24000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	cost 216000
```
24k is far too cheap for the power and size of this outfit.

	thumbnail "outfit/multispectral scanner"
	"mass" 6
	"outfit space" -12
	"tactical scan power" 180
	"energy consumption" 0.45
	"heat generation" 1.8
	description "The Multispectral Scanner is a veritable suite of instruments, including an active scanning phased array radar, a combined infrared/optical/ultraviolet telescope, an array of semiconductor gamma detectors, and a bundle of neutron-detecting helium-3 tubes. With this plethora of instruments, distant ships can be detected, ranged, and tracked, despite any attempts to hide."
	description "To increase the sensitivity of the instruments, certain components are cryocooled to temperatures ranging in the low microkelvins. The heat pump system responsible for maintaining this requires a surprising amount of power, while also producing a significant amount of waste heat."

outfit "Spectrometer Array"
	series "Avgi: Sensors"
	index 20
	category "Systems"

> 	cost 24000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	cost 240000
```

outfit "R-720 RCS Thrusters"
	plural "R-720 RCS Thrusters"
	series "Avgi: Thrusters"
	index 30
	category "Engines"
	"cost" 1077000
	thumbnail "outfit/rcs large"
	"mass" 72
	"outfit space" -72
	"engine capacity" -72
	"turn" 3690
	"turning energy" 6
	"turning heat" -9
	"reverse thrust" 36
	"reverse thrusting energy" 6
	"reverse thrusting heat" -9
	"steering flare sprite" "effect/avgi flare/rcs"
		"frame rate" 30
		"scale" 0.25
	"steering flare sound" "plasma small"
	"reverse flare sprite" "effect/avgi flare/rcs"
		"frame rate" 30
		"scale" 0.5
	"reverse flare sound" "plasma small"
	description "This large set of 'teakettle' style reaction control thrusters can allow even the largest of Avgi starships to maneuver with ease, or even reverse course without needing to fully turn around. They also can be used to reject considerable amounts of waste heat by expelling superheated water vapor, boosted by an electromagnetic accelerator."

outfit `Z-3600 "Beam" Amat Torch`
	category "Engines"
	series "Avgi: Thrusters"
	index 80

> 	"cost" 900000000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	"cost" 21600000
```
Based on the cost progression of the fusion torches and the much larger size of this outfit.

		"frame rate" 15
		"scale" 2
	"flare sound" "fusion torch"
	"afterburner effect" "large remass injection"
	"magnetic nozzle" 9
	description "The largest and oldest of the common fusion torches used by the Avgi, the Arc is derived from an interstellar-class design that was modified and downrated to make it more suitable for interplanetary operations by trading specific impulse for raw thrust. At this scale, the pinch is long enough that it is able to confine the plasma for sufficient time to not only fuse the deuterium into a mix of helium-3 and tritium, but to likewise burn the aforementioned fusion products together with leftover deuterium to release even more energy. This reaction, known as catalyzed D-D fusion, gives the Arc superior fuel efficiency over its smaller cousins."
	description "The magnetic nozzle is designed to support a variety of components that can be slotted in to provide various effects, from injecting additional propellant to improve thrust to tapping energy from the expanding fusion plasma to power a ship's systems."

effect "small remass injection"
	sprite "effect/avgi flare/remass"
		"frame rate" 30
		"scale" 0.75

> 	sound "flamethrower"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
	sound "flamethrower"
	"sound category" "afterburner"
```

effect "medium remass injection"
	sprite "effect/avgi flare/remass"
		"frame rate" 30

> 	sound "flamethrower"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
	sound "flamethrower"
	"sound category" "afterburner"
```

effect "large remass injection"
	sprite "effect/avgi flare/remass"
		"frame rate" 30
		"scale" 2

> 	sound "flamethrower"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
	sound "flamethrower"
	"sound category" "afterburner"
```

	"thrust" 222
	"thrusting energy" 18
	"thrusting heat" 90
	"thrusting fuel" 0.18
	"drag reduction" 0.6
	"flare sprite" "effect/avgi flare/fusion"
		"frame rate" 15
	"flare sound" "zpinch"
	"afterburner effect" "medium remass injection"
	"magnozzle rings" 6
	description "Balance TBD"

outfit `Z-990 "Arc" Fusion Torch`
	category "Engines"
	licenses
		"Twilight Guard"
	"cost" 2760000
	thumbnail "outfit/fusion engine large"
	"mass" 297
	"outfit space" -99
	"engine capacity" -99
	"thrust" 360
	"thrusting energy" 27
	"thrusting heat" 135
	"thrusting fuel" 0.27
	"drag reduction" 0.9
	"flare sprite" "effect/avgi flare/fusion"
		"frame rate" 30
		"scale" 2
	"flare sound" "zpinch"
	"afterburner effect" "large remass injection"
	"magnozzle rings" 9
	description "The largest of the standard fusion torches used by the Avgi"

effect "small remass injection"
	sprite "effect/avgi flare/afterburner"
		"frame rate" 30
		"scale" 0.75
	sound "flamethrower"

effect "medium remass injection"
	sprite "effect/avgi flare/afterburner"
		"frame rate" 30
	sound "flamethrower"

effect "large remass injection"
	sprite "effect/avgi flare/afterburner"
		"frame rate" 30
		"scale" 2
	sound "flamethrower"

> outfit "Remass Injector"

Reviewer: This is also too strong, I think.
With these equipped, the avgi engines become more powerful per engine space than Korath afterburners, while also providing drag reduction on top of that and having the advantage of several different 'modes' (as you still have the option to run them with the normal, more fuel efficient operation of the base thruster).
Beyond that, there's also the issue that equipping these doesn't actually reduce the thrust per net space of the whole engine (when afterburning) noticeably, whereas the thrust per engine space more than doubles.
I would suggest dropping the `afterburner thrust` from 90 to 66, which makes these more of a tradeoff - still massively increasing the raw thrust per engine space, but at the cost of a lower thrust per net space.

Reviewer: The thrust per net space is behind Korath afterburners, yes. My point is that by my numbers the thrust/ton with remass injectors isn't noticeably worse than with the engine firing normally, so there's not as much of a tradeoff for the remass injector relative to the engine as a whole as there perhaps should be.
![image](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/assets/18634983/52e9837d-fa35-4871-82d1-c07b3b843b29)
![image](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/assets/18634983/60d6ed61-8e88-435a-bdd9-b25cabcea379)

	category "Engines"
	licenses
		"Twilight Guard"
	"cost" 2760000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 3
	"outfit space" -3
	"engine capacity" -3
	"afterburner thrust" 90
	"afterburner energy" 3
	"afterburner heat" -12
	"afterburner fuel" 0.3
	"magnozzle rings" -1
	description "A powerful magnetohydrodynamic turbopump forces a torrent of water into a fusion torch's magnetic nozzle, dramatically increasing thrust at the cost of a significant increase in propellant consumption. The additional mass flow helps reduce the waste heat imparted on a ship by the torch drive."
	description "The Remass Injector is a component that can be installed into an Avgi fusion torch to give it afterburning capabilities. It requires a magnozzle ring slot to be installed."

> outfit "Inductive Extractor"

Reviewer: > So the provided energy offsetting all outfit space requirements assumes that it's producing energy at all times, like an equivalent reactor/ramscoop/etc, but in reality the inductive extractor will only be functioning for small fractions of a ship's flight time. 

That is true. The point about it being enough to offset the fuel, heat and energy costs of the engine still applies though, since they're necessarily active for the same fraction of the flight time.

> outfit "Inductive Extractor"

Reviewer 3: I understand that the whole idea of the Inductive Extractor is to completely offset the need for power generation besides the torches, but they do _very_ odd things in a mixed-engine environment- not a problem right _now_, but possibly with repercussions in the future. Using a Spark with inductive extractors means one can completely offset the power usage of an engine set otherwise composed entirely of Quarg steering and Ionic Afterburners, which I believe would be the most power-hungry engine set in the game. I suspect this would be... rather problematic in player use.

	"mass" 6
	"anchor point" -1
	"scan interference" 6
	"radar jamming" 12
	"optical jamming" 12
	"solar heat" 6
	description "A specialized coating of quantum dot phased array antennas, grown molecule by molecule, forms a conformal film capable of interfering with and jamming any attempts to scan or detect a ship. Working in aggregate, the phased array can be used to jam the sensors of missiles from further away, or even blind them with a low-power beam. However, the density of quantum dots required to produce these effects considerably increases the amount of sunlight absorbed by a ship using Concealment Scales, and such an advanced material does not come cheap."
	description "Scales take advantage of special external hardpoints built into most Avgi ships, allowing them to be mounted without taking up any outfit space. However, they also tend to increase the amount of heat absorbed from the local star."

outfit "Nanoceramic Scales"
	plural "Nanoceramic Scales"
	category "Systems"
	licenses
		"Twilight Guard"
	cost 200000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 36
	"anchor point" -1
	"hull multiplier" 0.33
	"shield generation multiplier" -0.33
	"solar heat" 3

> 	description "These extra armor plates can significantly reinforce a ship's hull, but are quite heavy. The added bulk in front of a ship's shield emitters can also interfere with shield generators, impairing their ability to recharge them."

Reviewer 5: Let me know if I've misinterpreted the true meaning of this sentence.
```suggestion
	description "These extra armor plates can significantly reinforce a ship's hull, but are quite heavy. The added bulk in front of a ship's shield emitters can also interfere with shield generators, impairing the former's ability to recharge the latter."
```

outfit "Cryogenic Deuterium Tank"
	category "Systems"
	cost 30000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 12
	"outfit space" -6
	"cargo space" -30
	"fuel capacity" 600
	description `This insulated pressure vessel is designed to store hyperspace fuel under cryogenic temperatures for bulk transport. While not quite as efficient as a deuterium slush tank, this outfit is designed to work with a ship's available cargo space with minimal overhead, allowing many to be installed simultaneously without the need for deep cryocoolers.`

outfit "Thermal Sink Partition"
	category "Systems"
	cost 84000
	thumbnail "outfit/densified fuel tank"
	"mass" 9
	"outfit space" -3
	"fuel capacity" -100
	"heat capacity" 180
	description `This lightweight modification partitions off a section of a ship's fuel tanks with an insulating membrane, allowing them to be partially filled with a nanofluid with a high specific heat capacity. As a heatsink, it does not assist with cooling a ship, but allows it to take greater thermal loads while remaining at a safe temperature.`

> outfit "Multispectral Scanner"

Reviewer: Cutting all the scanning power values in half would work. That'd put it only a little above the 2x tactical scanner + 1 asteroid scanner option in terms of value per space, but still combining both in a smaller package.
Removing the asteroid scan would also put it in a reasonable balance position if you wanted to go that way; it's up to you.

	category "Systems"
	cost 24000
	thumbnail "outfit/multispectral scanner"
	"mass" 3
	"outfit space" -6
	"tactical scan power" 72
	"asteroid scan power" 36
	"energy consumption" 0.15
	"heat generation" 0.3
	description "A scanner with excellent sensitivity by human standards, this array of sensors covers nearly the entire electromagnetic spectrum, from hard x-rays to the softest radio waves. It is able to discern a surprising amount of information about a ship from a significant distance, providing a ship fitted with one with a plethora of targeting data. Additionally, analyzing the albedo of passive objects such as asteroids can reveal the composition of surface deposits at a low accuracy."
	description "To increase the sensitivity of the instrument, certain component sensors require constant cooling to microkelvin scale temperatures. The heat pump system responsible for maintaining this requires a surprising amount of energy, while also producing a small amount of waste heat."

> outfit "Spectrometer Array"

Reviewer: That still leaves it quite strong - close to the asteroid scanner's asteroid scan per space, but with outfit and cargo scan built in as well - but given the lack of other asteroid scanners to compare to that'd be at a point where it'd be more reasonable to say that it's maybe just the human asteroid scanner not being very good.
So yeah, I think that'd be fine.

	"delayed shield energy" 3.6
	"delayed shield heat" 9.6
	"shield delay" 3
	description "The largest shield generator manufactured by the Avgi is impressive, if only because of how far the Avgi have pushed their limited theory of shielding principles. While their engineering ingenuity is admirable, there is a limit to how far you can take an incomplete understanding of the base physics behind shielding, and this generator approaches that limit."

outfit "Optical Lasing Generator"
	category "Systems"
	cost 120000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 30
	"outfit space" -30
	"lasing power" 3
	description "A monolithic slab of semiconductor diode is used to efficiently pump a spool of doped optical fiber. Hundreds of kilometers long, the coiled fibers serve as a lasing medium with the power needed to produce an intense beam of light, and can be gain-switched to pulse at a variety of frequencies. The produced laser light, which can be converted to a number of wavelengths, can be easily tapped and routed via optical fibers or mirrors to a number of turrets on a ship, eliminating the need for the heavy lasing generator to be anywhere near the turret itself."

> 	description "The infrared light produced in the coil can either be passed through a frequency doubling crystal to support up to three Green Optical Lasers, or frequency tripled to support a single Blue Optical Lasers."

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
	description "The infrared light produced in the coil can either be passed through a frequency doubling crystal to support up to three Green Optical Lasers, or frequency tripled to support a single Blue Optical Laser."
```

# Power:

> outfit "Concentrating Solar Cell"

Reviewer: Much better than human solar panels, but weaker than Bunrodea and Coalition ones. Might see some use as a way to fit power generation into small leftover space, which is an option that is nice to have.

	category "Power"
	cost 12600
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 1
	"outfit space" -3
	"solar collection" 0.3
	"solar heat" 0.12
	description "This tiny set of concentrating solar cells efficiently collects sunlight, turning it into usable energy. Thin Fresnel lenses concentrate sunlight onto a small number of highly efficient solar cells, reducing weight and improving efficiency."

> outfit "Concentrating Solar Array"

Reviewer: Good enough that it's genuinely useful, but weaker than the Coalition's solar panels. The low mass is interesting, but not a balance issue.

	category "Power"
	cost 114000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 3
	"outfit space" -18
	"solar collection" 2.4
	"solar heat" 1.02
	description "This large set of concentrating solar cells efficiently collects sunlight, turning it into usable energy. Thin Fresnel lenses concentrate sunlight onto a small number of highly efficient solar cells, reducing weight and improving efficiency."
	description "While much more efficient than a single cell alone, the Solar Array also produces a disproportionate amount of heat."

outfit "Photoelectric Lamina"
	plural "Photoelectric Laminae"
	category "Power"
	cost 294000
	thumbnail "outfit/photoelectric lamina"
	"mass" 24
	"anchor point" -1
	"solar collection" 6
	"solar heat" 1.8
	description "These concentrating solar panels can be mounted conformally to a ship's hull, efficiently collecting sunlight and turning it into usable energy."
	description "Photovoltaic Laminae take advantage of special external hardpoints built into most Avgi ships, allowing them to be mounted without taking up any outfit space. However, they also tend to increase the amount of heat absorbed from the local star."

> outfit "Lantern Fission Core"

Reviewer: This is very strong for its size and tier, with 7.97 energy per net space (after cooling), compared to the comparable Dwarf Core which sits at 6.82
In the wider game balance view, this beats the 23 ton Candle's 7.12, and the Small Biochemical Cell, which works out at 7.68 once its energy capacity is accounted for. The only better outfits of a similar or smaller size are the ka'het MHD at 9.27 (22 outfit space), and the Coalition Large Collector Module at 9.13 (21 outfit space).
With its current stats the Lantern Fission Core is the best purchaseable non-solar generator at this size.
Not breaking anything as such, but probably still somewhat stronger than it should be?

Reviewer: I think the 3.6 energy/frame that you've got it at now is about right. That puts it roughly on par with the Hai's Pebble, which is also a miniaturised fission reactor.

	category "Power"
	cost 1200000
	thumbnail "outfit/lantern fission core"
	"mass" 24
	"outfit space" -24
	"energy generation" 3.9
	"heat generation" 12
	description "The Lantern is a compact dusty plasma fission reactor designed to fit even on large fighters or interceptors. By suspending uranium dust in a hydrogen plasma, which is in turn contained by a magnetic field, the reactor can achieve incredible core temperatures high enough to make it efficient for its size, at the cost of producing significant amounts of waste heat."

outfit "Ultracapacitor Cell"
	category "Power"
	cost 20400
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 1
	"outfit space" -3
	"energy capacity" 1500
	"ion protection" -0.01

> 	"description" "The internal structure of this deceptively light capacitor cell resembles a fractal of molecule-thin graphene sheets interlocked together. While not the most efficient in their use of volume, and thus outfit space, this capacitor cell is extraordinarily energy dense for its mass, a deliberate design choice from the days of sublight interstellar travel, when every gram counted."

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
	"description" "The internal structure of this deceptively light capacitor cell resembles a fractal of molecule-thin graphene sheets interlocked together. While not the most efficient in their use of outfit space, this capacitor cell is extraordinarily energy dense for its mass, a deliberate design choice from the days of sublight interstellar travel, when every gram counted."
```

	"description" "Unfortunately, the internal structure is also quite delicate, and is prone to potential discharge when exposed to ionizing radiation. Thankfully, resilient grounding leads prevents this discharge from becoming catastrophic."
	
	
outfit "Ultracapacitor Bank"
	category "Power"
	cost 200000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 6
	"outfit space" -18
	"energy capacity" 10800
	"ion protection" -0.03
	"description" "These fractal capacitors are capable of storing a large amount of energy within superconducting graphene sheets. This capacitor bank chains together six individual cells, but saves space by discarding redundant components and unnecessary structural mass."

> 	"description" "Like its component cells, the capacitor bank is vulnerable to ionizing weapons, but is relatively better shielded for its size by virtue of its reduced surface area to volume ratio."

Reviewer: These are both better than human batteries, but quite weak compared to those of the Coalition or Remnant, even before considering the ion weakness.

outfit "Remass Injector"
	series "Avgi: Engines"
	index 100
	category "Engines"
	licenses
		"Twilight Guard"
	"cost" 2760000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 3
	"outfit space" -3
	"engine capacity" -3
	"afterburner thrust" 72
	"afterburner energy" 3
	"afterburner heat" -12
	"afterburner fuel" 0.3
	"magnozzle rings" -1
	description "A powerful magnetohydrodynamic turbopump forces a torrent of lithium-seeded water into the throat of a fusion torch's magnetic nozzle, dramatically increasing thrust at the cost of a significant increase in propellant consumption. The additional mass flow likewise reduces the waste heat generated by a torch drive, capturing much of it as propellant is injected around the fusion reaction."
	description "The Remass Injector is a component that can be installed into an Avgi fusion torch to give it afterburning capabilities. It requires a magnozzle ring slot to be installed."

outfit "Inductive Extractor"
	series "Avgi: Engines"
	index 90
	category "Engines"
	licenses
		"Twilight Guard"
	"cost" 2760000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 12
	"outfit space" -12
	"engine capacity" -6
	"energy generation" 1.5
	"heat generation" 1.5
	"thrust" -9

> 	"thrusting energy" -30

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	"thrusting energy" -16.5
```
This number is balanced based on the folllowing assumptions:

1: One point of engine space is five times more valuable than one point of outfit space. Hence, the -12 outfit space and -6 engine capacity becomes an 'effective' cost of 42 space. Accounting also for the engine space cost of the thrust penalty (also considered at 5x more valuable than outfit space), and the cooling requirements, and the outfit space to power the engine (this is all assuming Avgi engines, specifically the Z-330. Normally I wouldn't be happy making such an assumption, but in this case you cannot install the inductive extractor without using Avgi engines, so I think it's okay), this works out as a total effective adjusted outfit space cost of 67.14

2: Generating energy only by thrusting is around 66% as useful as generating the same amount of energy normally.
As you point out [here](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/pull/9172/files?file-filters%5B%5D=.txt&show-viewed-files=true#r1672958615), it is indeed less valuable, and this puts a number on that.

If you accept both these assumptions, then this value makes the Inductive Extractor roughly as good of a power source as a Double Plasma Core or a Yellow Sun. Conversely, if these assumptions are wrong then this number will also be wrong. But, if you're confident about the direction in which the assumptions are wrong, then you can work backwards from that to determine whether this value is too high or too low.

outfit "Spectrometer Array"
	category "Systems"
	licenses
		"Avgi Civilian"
	cost 24000
	thumbnail "outfit/spectrometer array"
	"mass" 6
	"outfit space" -12
	"outfit scan power" 42
	"outfit scan efficiency" 12
	"cargo scan power" 42
	"cargo scan efficiency" 12
	"asteroid scan power" 144
	"energy consumption" 0.03
	description "This sensor array features a set of sensitive spectrometers capable of analyzing the spectral signatures of materials in order to determine their composition. A small ultraviolet laser can speed this process up for asteroids by vaporizing a small surface sample, making the spectral lines much more visible, but is sadly useless against shielded ships and their internal systems."
	description "Unfortunately, while Avgi sensors excel in reading basic physical and chemical information, such as the composition of an object, the amount of sensor data required to predict an outfit's functionality means this sensor can be quite slow when scanning a ship's complex systems or cargo."

outfit "Diffuse Deflector"
	category "Systems"
	licenses
		"Avgi Civilian"
	cost 1200000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 48
	"outfit space" -48

> 	"shield generation" 0.6
> 	"shield energy" 1.8
> 	"shield heat" 4.8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	"delayed shield generation" 0.6
	"delayed shield energy" 1.8
	"delayed shield heat" 4.8
```

Reviewer: With their current delay of only three frames, probably not.

	"shield delay" 3
	description "For its size, you would expect this shield generator to be far more powerful than it actually is. While it is nearly as large as the heaviest human shield generators, it is only about half as strong, while also consuming much more power. Much of this power ends up being shed as waste heat instead of being used to efficiently regenerate a shield."

outfit "Specular Deflector"
	category "Systems"
	licenses
		"Avgi Military"
	cost 2100000
	thumbnail "outfit/unknown"
	"mass" 72
	"outfit space" -72

> 	"shield generation" 1.2
> 	"shield energy" 3.6
> 	"shield heat" 9.6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	"delayed shield generation" 1.2
	"delayed shield energy" 3.6
	"delayed shield heat" 9.6
```
